
SECTION II.

Of the Invention of Centripetal Forces.

PROPOSITION I. THEOREM I.

    The areas, which revolving bodies describe by radii drawn to an immovable ce
ntre of force do lie in the same immovable planes, and are proportional to the t
imes in which they are described.

    For suppose the time to be divided into equal parts, and in the first part o
f that time let the body by its innate force describe the right line AB In the s
econd part of that time, the same would (by Law I.), if not hindered, proceed di
rectly to c, along the line Bc equal to AB; so that by the radii AS, BS, cS, dra
wn to the centre, the equal areas ASB, BSc, would be  Principia1846-105.png desc
ribed. But when the body is arrived at B, suppose that a centripetal force acts 
at once with a great impulse; and, turning aside the body from the right line Bc
, compels it afterwards to continue its motion along the right line BC. Draw cC 
parallel to BS meeting BC in C; and at the end of the second part of the time, t
he body (by Cor. I. of the Laws) will be found in C, in the same plane with the 
triangle ASB. Join SC, and, because SB and Cc are parallel, the triangle SBC wil
l be equal to the triangle SBc, and therefore also to the triangle SAB. By the l
ike argument, if the centripetal force acts successively in C, D, E. &c.; and ma
kes the body, in each single particle of time, to describe the right lines CD, D
E, EF, &c., they will all lie in the same plane; and the triangle SCD will be eq
ual to the triangle SBC, and SDE to SCD, and SEF to SDE. And therefore, in equal
 times, equal areas are described in one immovable plane: and, by composition, a
ny sums SADS, SAFS, of those areas, are one to the other as the times in which t
hey are described. Now let the number of those triangles be augmented, and their
 breadth diminished in infinitum; and (by Cor. 4, Lem. III.) their ultimate peri
meter ADF will be a curve line: and therefore the centripetal force, by which th
e body is perpetually drawn back from the tangent of this curve, will act contin
ually; and any described areas SADS, SAFS, which are always proportional to the 
times of description, will, in this case also, be proportional to those times.  
 Q.E.D.

LEMMA II.
Principia1846-095.png
If in any figure AacE, terminated by the right lines Aa, AE, and the curve acE, 
there be inscribed any number of parallelograms Ab, Bc, Cd, &c., comprehended un
der equal bases AB, BC, CD, &c., and the sides, Bb, Cc, Dd, &c., parallel to one
 side Aa of the figure; and the parallelograms aKbl, bLcm, cMdn, &c., are comple
ted. Then if the breadth of those parallelograms be supposed to be diminished, a
nd their number to be augmented in infinitum; I say, that the ultimate ratios wh
ich the inscribed figure AKbLcMdD, the circumscribed figure AalbmcndoE, and curv
ilinear figure AabcdE, will have to one another, are ratios of equality.

For the difference of the inscribed and circumscribed figures is the sum of the 
parallelograms Kl, Lm, Mu, Do, that is (from the equality of all their bases), t
he rectangle under one of their bases Kb and the sum of their altitudes Aa, that
 is, the rectangle ABla. But this rectangle, because its breadth AB is supposed 
diminished in infinitum, becomes less than any given space. And therefore (by Le
m. I) the figures inscribed and circumscribed become ultimately equal one to the
 other; and much more will the intermediate curvilinear figure be ultimately equ
al to either.    Q.E.D.



LEMMA III.
The same ultimate ratios are also ratios of equality, when the, breadths, AB, BC
, DC, &c., of the parallelograms are unequal, and are all diminished in infinitu
m.

Principia1846-095.png
For suppose AF equal to the greatest breadth, and complete the parallelogram FAa
f. This parallelogram will be greater than the difference of the inscribed and c
ircumscribed figures; but, because its breadth AF is diminished in infinitum, it
 will be come less than any given rectangle.   Q.E.D.

Cor. 1. Hence the ultimate sum of those evanescent parallelograms will in all pa
rts coincide with the curvilinear figure.

Cor. 2. Much more will the rectilinear figure comprehended under the chords of t
he evanescent arcs ab, bc, cd, &c., ultimately coincide with the curvilinear fig
ure.

Cor. 3. And also the circumscribed rectilinear figure comprehended under the tan
gents of the same arcs.

Cor. 4 And therefore these ultimate figures (as to their perimeters acE) are not
 rectilinear, but curvilinear limits of rectilinear figures.



LEMMA IV.
Principia1846-096.png
If in two figures AacE, PprT, you inscribe (as before) two ranks of parallelogra
ms, an equal number in each rank, and, when their breadths are diminished in inf
initum, the ultimate ratios of the parallelograms in one figure to those in the 
other, each to each respectively, are the same; I say, that those two figures Aa
cE, PprT, are to one another in that same ratio.

For as the parallelograms in the one are severally to the parallelograms in the 
other, so (by composition) is the sum of all in the one to the sum of all in the
 other; and so is the one figure to the other; because (by Lem. III) the former 
figure to the former sum, and the latter figure to the latter sum, are both in t
he ratio of equality.   Q.E.D.

Cor. Hence if two quantities of any kind are any how divided into an equal numbe
r of parts, and those parts, when their number is augmented, and their magnitude
 diminished in infinitum, have a given ratio one to the other, the first to the 
first, the second to the second, and so on in order, the whole quantities will b
e one to the other in that same given ratio. For if, in the figures of this Lemm
a, the parallelograms are taken one to the other in the ratio of the parts, the 
sum of the parts will always be as the sum of the parallelograms; and therefore 
supposing the number of the parallelograms and parts to be augmented, and their 
magnitudes diminished in infinitum, those sums will be in the ultimate ratio of 
the parallelogram in the one figure to the correspondent parallelogram in the ot
her; that is (by the supposition), in the ultimate ratio of any part of the one 
quantity to the correspondent part of the other.



LEMMA V.
In similar figures, all sorts of homologous sides, whether curvilinear or rectil
inear, are proportional; and the areas are in the duplicate ratio of the homolog
ous sides.



LEMMA VI.
Principia1846-097.png
If any arc ACB, given in position is subtended by its chord AB, and in any point
 A, in the middle of the continued curvature, is touched by a right line AD, pro
duced both ways; then if the points A and B approach one another and meet, I say
, the angle BAD, contained between, the chord and the tangent, will be diminishe
d in infinitum, and ultimately will vanish.

For if that angle does not vanish, the arc ACB will contain with the tangent AD 
an angle equal to a rectilinear angle; and therefore the curvature at the point 
A will not be continued, which is against the supposition.



LEMMA VII.
The same things being supposed, I say that the ultimate ratio of the arc, chord,
 and tangent, any one to any other, is the ratio of equality.

For while the point B approaches towards the point A, consider always AB and AD 
as produced to the remote points b and d, and parallel to the secant BD draw bd:
 and let the arc Acb be always similar to the arc ACB. Then, supposing the point
s A and B to coincide, the angle dAb will vanish, by the preceding Lemma; and th
erefore the right lines Ab, Ad (which are always finite), and the intermediate a
rc Acb, will coincide, and become equal among themselves. Wherefore, the right l
ines AB, AD, and the intermediate arc ACB (which are always proportional to the 
former), will vanish, and ultimately acquire the ratio of equality.   Q.E.D.

Principia1846-098a.png
Cor. 1. Whence if through B we draw BF parallel to the tangent, always cutting a
ny right line AF passing through A in F, this line BF will be ultimately in the 
ratio of equality with the evanescent arc ACB; because, completing the parallelo
gram AFBD, it is always in a ratio of equality with AD.

Cor. 2. And if through B and A more right lines are drawn, as BE, BD, AF, AG, cu
tting the tangent AD and its parallel BF; the ultimate ratio of all the abscissa
s AD, AE, BF, BG, and of the chord and arc AB, any one to any other, will be the
 ratio of equality.

Cor. 3. And therefore in all our reasoning about ultimate ratios, we may freely 
use any one of those lines for any other.



LEMMA VIII.
If the right lines AR, BR, with the arc ACB, the chord AB, and the tangent AD, c
onstitute three triangles RAB, RACB, RAD, and the points A and B approach and me
et: I say, that the ultimate form of these evanescent triangles is that of simil
itude, and their ultimate ratio that of equality.

Principia1846-098b.png
For while the point B approaches towards the point A, consider always AB, AD, AR
, as produced to the remote points b, d, and r, and rbd as drawn parallel to RD,
 and let the arc Acb be always similar to the arc ACB. Then supposing the points
 A and B to coincide, the angle bAd will vanish; and therefore the three triangl
es rAb, rAcb, rAd (which are always finite), will coincide, and on that account 
become both similar and equal. And therefore the triangles RAB, RACB, RAD, which
 are always similar and proportional to these, will ultimately be come both simi
lar and equal among themselves.   Q.E.D.

Cor. And hence in all reasonings about ultimate ratios, we may indifferently use
 any one of those triangles for any other.
Cor. 1. The velocity of a body attracted towards an immovable centre, in spa
ces void of resistance, is reciprocally as the perpendicular let fall from that 
centre on the right line that touches the orbit. For the velocities in those pla
ces A, B, C, D, E, are as the bases AB, BC, CD, DE, EF, of equal triangles; and 
these bases are reciprocally as the perpendiculars let fall upon them.

    Cor. 2. If the chords AB, BC of two arcs, successively described in equal ti
mes by the same body, in spaces void of resistance, are completed into a paralle
logram ABCV, and the diagonal BV of this parallelogram; in the position which it
 ultimately acquires when those arcs are diminished in infinitum, is produced bo
th ways, it will pass through the centre of force.

    Cor. 3. If the chords AB, BC, and DE, EF, of arcs described in equal times, 
in spaces void of resistance, are completed into the parallelograms ABCV, DEFZ; 
the forces in B and E are one to the other in the ultimate ratio of the diagonal
s BV, EZ, when those arcs are diminished in infinitum. For the motions BC and EF
 of the body (by Cor. 1 of the Laws) are compounded of the motions Bc, BV, and E
f, EZ: but BV and EZ, which are equal to Cc and Ff, in the demonstration of this
 Proposition, were generated by the impulses of the centripetal force in B and E
, and are therefore proportional to those impulses.

    Cor. 4. The forces by which bodies, in spaces void of resistance, are drawn 
back from rectilinear motions, and turned into curvilinear orbits, are one to an
other as the versed sines of arcs described in equal times; which versed sines t
end to the centre of force, and bisect the chords when those arcs are diminished
 to infinity. For such versed sines are the halves of the diagonals mentioned in
 Cor. 3.

    Cor. 5. And therefore those forces are to the force of gravity as the said v
ersed sines to the versed sines perpendicular to the horizon of those parabolic 
arcs which projectiles describe in the same time.

    Cor. 6. And the same things do all hold good (by Cor. 5 of the Laws), when t
he planes in which the bodies are moved, together with the centres of force whic
h are placed in those planes, are not at rest, but move uniformly forward in rig
ht lines.
