LEMMA IX.
If a right line AE, and a curve Line ABC, both given by position, cut each other
 in a given angle, A; and to that right line, in another given angle, BD, CE are
 ordinately applied, meeting the curve in B, C; and the points B and C together 
approach towards and meet in the point A: I say, that the areas of the triangles
 ABD, ACE, will ultimately be one to the other in the duplicate ratio of the sid
es.

 Principia1846-099.png For while the points B, C, approach towards the point A, 
suppose always AD to be produced to the remote points d and e, so as Ad, Ae may 
be proportional to AD, AE; and the ordinates db, ec, to be drawn parallel to the
 ordinates DB and EC, and meeting AB and AC produced in b and c. Let the curve A
bc be similar to the curve ABC, and draw the right line Ag so as to touch both c
urves in A, and cut the ordinates DB, EC, db, ec, in F, G, f, g. Then, supposing
 the length Ae to remain the same, let the points B and C meet in the point A; a
nd the angle cAg vanishing, the curvilinear areas Abd, Ace will coincide with th
e rectilinear areas Afd, Age; and therefore (by Lem. V) will be one to the other
 in the duplicate ratio of the sides Ad, Ae. But the areas ABD, ACE are always p
roportional to these areas; and so the sides AD, AE are to these sides. And ther
efore the areas ABD, ACE are ultimately one to the other in the duplicate ratio 
of the sides AD, AE.   Q.E.D.


LEMMA X.
The spaces which a body describes by any finite force urging it, whether that fo
rce is determined and immutable, or is continually augmented or continually dimi
nished, are in the very beginning of the motion one to the other in the duplicat
e ratio of the times.

Let the times be represented by the lines AD, AE, and the velocities generated i
n those times by the ordinates DB, EC. The spaces described with these velocitie
s will be as the areas ABD, ACE, described by those ordinates, that is, at the v
ery beginning of the motion (by Lem. IX), in the duplicate ratio of the times AD
, AE.   Q.E.D.

Cor. 1. And hence one may easily infer, that the errors of bodies describing sim
ilar parts of similar figures in proportional times, are nearly as the squares o
f the times in which they are generated; if so be these errors are generated by 
any equal forces similarly applied to the bodies, and measured by the distances 
of the bodies from those places of the similar figures, at which, without the ac
tion of those forces, the bodies would have arrived in those proportional times.


Cor. 2. But the errors that are generated by proportional forces, similarly appl
ied to the bodies at similar parts of the similar figures, are as the forces and
 the squares of the times conjunctly.

Cor. 3. The same thing is to be understood of any spaces whatsoever described by
 bodies urged with different forces; all which, in the very beginning of the mot
ion, are as the forces and the squares of the times conjunctly.

Cor. 4. And therefore the forces are as the spaces described in the very beginni
ng of the motion directly, and the squares of the times inversely.

Cor. 5. And the squares of the times are as the spaces described directly, and t
he forces inversely.



SCHOLIUM.
If in comparing indetermined quantities of different sorts one with another, any
 one is said to be as any other directly or inversely, the meaning is, that the 
former is augmented or diminished in the same ratio with the latter, or with its
 reciprocal. And if any one is said to be as any other two or more directly or i
nversely, the meaning is, that the first is augmented or diminished in the ratio
 compounded of the ratios in which the others, or the reciprocals of the others,
 are augmented or diminished. As if A is said to be as B directly, and C directl
y, and D inversely, the meaning is, that A is augmented or diminished in the sam
e ratio with \scriptstyle \mathrm{B\times C\times\frac{1}{D}}, that is to say, t
hat A and \scriptstyle \mathrm{\frac{BC}{D}} are one to the other in a given rat
io.



LEMMA XI.
The evanescent subtense of the angle of contact, in all curves which at the poin
t of contact have a finite curvature, is ultimately in the duplicate ratio of th
e subtense of the conterminate arc.

Principia1846-100.png
Case 1. Let AB be that arc, AD its tangent, BD the subtense of the angle of cont
act perpendicular on the tangent, AB the subtense of the arc. Draw BG perpendicu
lar to the subtense AB, and AG to the tangent AD, meeting in G; then let the poi
nts D, B, and G, approach to the points d, b, and g, and suppose J to be the ult
imate intersection of the lines BG, AG, when the points D, B, have come to A. It
 is evident that the distance GJ may be less than any assignable. But (from the 
nature of the circles passing through the points A, B, G, A, b, g) \scriptstyle 
\mathrm{AB^{2}=AG\times BD}, and \scriptstyle \mathrm{A}b^{2}=\mathrm{A}g\times 
bd; and therefore the ratio of AB² to Ab² is compounded of the ratios of AG to A
g, and of Bd to bd. But because GJ may be assumed of less length than any assign
able, the ratio of AG to Ag may be such as to differ from the ratio of equality 
by less than any assignable difference; and therefore the ratio of AB² to Ab² ma
y be such as to differ from the ratio of BD to bd by less than any assignable di
fference. There fore, by Lem. I, the ultimate ratio of AB² to Ab² is the same wi
th the ultimate ratio of BD to bd.   Q.E.D.

Case 2. Now let BD be inclined to AD in any given angle, and the ultimate ratio 
of BD to bd will always be the same as before, and therefore the same with the r
atio of AB² to Ab².   Q.E.D.

Case 3. And if we suppose the angle D not to be given, but that the right line B
D converges to a given point, or is determined by any other condition whatever; 
nevertheless the angles D, d, being determined by the same law, will always draw
 nearer to equality, and approach nearer to each other than by any assigned diff
erence, and therefore, by Lem. I, will at last be equal; and therefore the lines
 BD, bd are in the same ratio to each other as before.   Q.E.D.

Cor. 1. Therefore since the tangents AD, Ad, the arcs AB, Ab, and their sines, B
C, bc, become ultimately equal to the chords AB, Ab, their squares will ultimate
ly become as the subtenses BD, bd.

Cor. 2. Their squares are also ultimately as the versed sines of the arcs, bisec
ting the chords, and converging to a given point. For those versed sines are as 
the subtenses BD, bd.

Cor. 3. And therefore the versed sine is in the duplicate ratio of the time in w
hich a body will describe the arc with a given velocity.

Principia1846-100.png
Cor. 4. The rectilinear triangles ADB, Adb are ultimately in the triplicate rati
o of the sides AD, Ad, and in a sesquiplicate ratio of the sides DB, db; as bein
g in the ratio compounded of the sides AD to DB, and of Ad to db. So also the tr
iangles ABC, Abc are ultimately in the triplicate ratio of the sides BC, bc. Wha
t I call the sesquiplicate ratio is the subduplicate of the triplicate, as being
 compounded of the simple and subduplicate ratio.

Cor. 5. And because DB, db are ultimately parallel and in the duplicate ratio of
 the lines AD, Ad, the ultimate curvilinear areas ADB, Adb will be (by the natur
e of the parabola) two thirds of the rectilinear triangles ADB, Adb and the segm
ents AB, Ab will be one third of the same triangles. And thence those areas and 
those segments will be in the triplicate ratio as well of the tangents AD, Ad, a
s of the chords and arcs AB, AB.



SCHOLIUM.
But we have all along supposed the angle of contact to be neither infinitely gre
ater nor infinitely less than the angles of contact made by circles and their ta
ngents; that is, that the curvature at the point A is neither infinitely small n
or infinitely great, or that the interval AJ is of a finite magnitude. For DB ma
y be taken as AD3: in which case no circle can be drawn through the point A, bet
ween the tangent AD and the curve AB, and therefore the angle of contact will be
 infinitely less than those of circles. And by a like reasoning, if DB be made s
uccessfully as AD4, AD5, AD6, AD7, &c., we shall have a series of angles of cont
act, proceeding in infinitum, wherein every succeeding term is infinitely less t
han the preceding. And if DB be made successively as AD²; AD
3
2
, AD
4
3
, AD
5
4
, AD
6
5
, AD
7
6
, &c., we shall have another infinite series of angles of contact, the first of 
which is of the same sort with those of circles, the second infinitely greater, 
and every succeeding one infinitely greater than the preceding. But between any 
two of these angles another series of intermediate angles of contact may be inte
rposed, proceeding both ways in infinitum, wherein every succeeding angle shall 
be infinitely greater or infinitely less than the preceding. As if between the t
erms AD² and AD² there were interposed the series AD
13
6
, AD
11
5
, AD
9
4
, AD
7
3
, AD
5
2
, AD
8
3
, AD
11
4
, AD
14
5
, AD
17
6
 &c. And again, between any two angles of this series, a new series of intermedi
ate angles may be interposed, differing from one another by infinite intervals. 
Nor is nature confined to any bounds.

Those things which have been demonstrated of curve lines, and the superfices whi
ch they comprehend, may be easily applied to the curve superfices and contents o
f solids. These Lemmas are premised to avoid the tediousness of deducing perplex
ed demonstrations ad absurdum, according to the method of the ancient geometers.
 For demonstrations are more contracted by the method of indivisibles: but becau
se the hypothesis of indivisibles seems somewhat harsh, and therefore that metho
d is reckoned less geometrical, I chose rather to reduce the demonstrations of t
he following propositions to the first and last sums and ratios of nascent and e
vanescent quantities, that is, to the limits of those sums and ratios; and so to
 premise, as short as I could, the demonstrations of those limits. For hereby th
e same thing is performed as by the method of indivisibles; and now those princi
ples being demonstrated, we may use them with more safety. Therefore if hereafte
r I should happen to consider quantities as made up of particles, or should use 
little curve lines for right ones, I would not be understood to mean indivisible
s, but evanescent divisible quantities: not the sums and ratios of determinate p
arts, but always the limits of sums and ratios; and that the force of such demon
strations always depends on the method laid down in the foregoing Lemmas.

Perhaps it may be objected, that there is no ultimate proportion, of evanescent 
quantities; because the proportion, before the quantities have vanished, is not 
the ultimate, and when they are vanished, is none. But by the same argument, it 
may be alledged, that a body arriving at a certain place, and there stopping, ha
s no ultimate velocity: because the velocity, before the body comes to the place
, is not its ultimate velocity; when it has arrived, is none. But the answer is 
easy; for by the ultimate velocity is meant that with which the body is moved, n
either before it arrives at its last place and the motion ceases, nor after, but
 at the very instant it arrives; that is, that velocity with which the body arri
ves at its last place, and with which the motion ceases. And in like manner, by 
the ultimate ratio of evanescent quantities is to be understood the ratio of the
 quantities not before they vanish, nor afterwards, but with which they vanish. 
In like manner the first ratio of nascent quantities is that with which they beg
in to be. And the first or last sum is that with which they begin and cease to b
e (or to be augmented or diminished). There is a limit which the velocity at the
 end of the motion may attain, but not exceed. This is the ultimate velocity. An
d there is the like limit in all quantities and proportions that begin and cease
 to be. And since such limits are certain and definite, to determine the same is
 a problem strictly geometrical. But whatever is geometrical we may be allowed t
o use in determining and demonstrating any other thing that is likewise geometri
cal.

It may also be objected, that if the ultimate ratios of evanescent quantities ar
e given, their ultimate magnitudes will be also given: and so all quantities wil
l consist of indivisibles, which is contrary to what Euclid has demonstrated con
cerning incommensurables, in the 10th Book of his Elements. But this objection i
s founded on a false supposition. For those ultimate ratios with which quantitie
s vanish are not truly the ratios of ultimate quantities, but limits towards whi
ch the ratios of quantities decreasing without limit do always converge; and to 
which they approach nearer than by any given difference, but never go beyond, no
r in effect attain to, till the quantities are diminished in infinitum. This thi
ng will appear more evident in quantities infinitely great. If two quantities, w
hose difference is given, be augmented in infinitum, the ultimate ratio of these
 quantities will be given, to wit, the ratio of equality; but it does not from t
hence follow, that the ultimate or greatest quantities themselves, whose ratio t
hat is, will be given. Therefore if in what follows, for the sake of being more 
easily understood, I should happen to mention quantities as least, or evanescent
, or ultimate, you are not to suppose that quantities of any determinate magnitu
de are meant, but such as are conceived to be always diminished without end.
