preprocess:
    include

SECTION II.

Of the Invention of Centripetal Forces.

PROPOSITION I. THEOREM I.

    The areas, which revolving bodies describe by radii drawn to an immovable ce
ntre of force do lie in the same immovable planes, and are proportional to the t
imes in which they are described.

    For suppose the time to be divided into equal parts, and in the first part o
f that time let the body by its innate force describe the right line AB In the s
econd part of that time, the same would (by Law I.), if not hindered, proceed di
rectly to c, along the line Bc equal to AB; so that by the radii AS, BS, cS, dra
wn to the centre, the equal areas ASB, BSc, would be  Principia1846-105.png desc
ribed. But when the body is arrived at B, suppose that a centripetal force acts 
at once with a great impulse; and, turning aside the body from the right line Bc
, compels it afterwards to continue its motion along the right line BC. Draw cC 
parallel to BS meeting BC in C; and at the end of the second part of the time, t
he body (by Cor. I. of the Laws) will be found in C, in the same plane with the 
triangle ASB. Join SC, and, because SB and Cc are parallel, the triangle SBC wil
l be equal to the triangle SBc, and therefore also to the triangle SAB. By the l
ike argument, if the centripetal force acts successively in C, D, E. &c.; and ma
kes the body, in each single particle of time, to describe the right lines CD, D
E, EF, &c., they will all lie in the same plane; and the triangle SCD will be eq
ual to the triangle SBC, and SDE to SCD, and SEF to SDE. And therefore, in equal
 times, equal areas are described in one immovable plane: and, by composition, a
ny sums SADS, SAFS, of those areas, are one to the other as the times in which t
hey are described. Now let the number of those triangles be augmented, and their
 breadth diminished in infinitum; and (by Cor. 4, Lem. III.) their ultimate peri
meter ADF will be a curve line: and therefore the centripetal force, by which th
e body is perpetually drawn back from the tangent of this curve, will act contin
ually; and any described areas SADS, SAFS, which are always proportional to the 
times of description, will, in this case also, be proportional to those times.  
 Q.E.D.

include "../../include_2"

    Cor. 1. The velocity of a body attracted towards an immovable centre, in spa
ces void of resistance, is reciprocally as the perpendicular let fall from that 
centre on the right line that touches the orbit. For the velocities in those pla
ces A, B, C, D, E, are as the bases AB, BC, CD, DE, EF, of equal triangles; and 
these bases are reciprocally as the perpendiculars let fall upon them.

    Cor. 2. If the chords AB, BC of two arcs, successively described in equal ti
mes by the same body, in spaces void of resistance, are completed into a paralle
logram ABCV, and the diagonal BV of this parallelogram; in the position which it
 ultimately acquires when those arcs are diminished in infinitum, is produced bo
th ways, it will pass through the centre of force.

    Cor. 3. If the chords AB, BC, and DE, EF, of arcs described in equal times, 
in spaces void of resistance, are completed into the parallelograms ABCV, DEFZ; 
the forces in B and E are one to the other in the ultimate ratio of the diagonal
s BV, EZ, when those arcs are diminished in infinitum. For the motions BC and EF
 of the body (by Cor. 1 of the Laws) are compounded of the motions Bc, BV, and E
f, EZ: but BV and EZ, which are equal to Cc and Ff, in the demonstration of this
 Proposition, were generated by the impulses of the centripetal force in B and E
, and are therefore proportional to those impulses.

    Cor. 4. The forces by which bodies, in spaces void of resistance, are drawn 
back from rectilinear motions, and turned into curvilinear orbits, are one to an
other as the versed sines of arcs described in equal times; which versed sines t
end to the centre of force, and bisect the chords when those arcs are diminished
 to infinity. For such versed sines are the halves of the diagonals mentioned in
 Cor. 3.

    Cor. 5. And therefore those forces are to the force of gravity as the said v
ersed sines to the versed sines perpendicular to the horizon of those parabolic 
arcs which projectiles describe in the same time.

    Cor. 6. And the same things do all hold good (by Cor. 5 of the Laws), when t
he planes in which the bodies are moved, together with the centres of force whic
h are placed in those planes, are not at rest, but move uniformly forward in rig
ht lines.
