Article 15.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to a nationality.
(2) No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right
 to change his nationality.

Article 16.
 
(1) Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality o
r religion, have the right to marry and to found a family. They are entitled to 
equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.
(2) Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the in
tending spouses.
(3) The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entit
led to protection by society and the State.

Article 17.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with 
others.
(2) No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.

Article 18.
 
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this righ
t includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone o
r in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or
 belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.

Article 19.
 
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes
 freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart i
nformation and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.

Article 20.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association.
(2) No one may be compelled to belong to an association.

Article 21.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, direct
ly or through freely chosen representatives.
(2) Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country.
(3) The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; th
is will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by u
niversal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent fr
ee voting procedures.

Article 22.
 
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitl
ed to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in
 accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, 
social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free developmen
t of his personality.

Article 23.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and fa
vourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment.
(2) Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal w
ork.
(3) Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensurin
g for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemen
ted, if necessary, by other means of social protection.
(4) Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection o
f his interests.

Article 24.
 
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of w
orking hours and periodic holidays with pay.

Article 25.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and w
ell-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and me
dical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event
 of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of live
lihood in circumstances beyond his control.
(2) Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance. All ch
ildren, whether born in or out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same social protectio
n.

Article 26.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in th
e elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. T
echnical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher
 education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.
(2) Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality
 and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, raci
al or religious groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations f
or the maintenance of peace.
(3) Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be giv
en to their children.

Article 27.
 
(1) Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the com
munity, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefit
s.
(2) Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests
 resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is t
he author.

Article 28.
 
Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and
 freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realized.

Article 29.
 
(1) Everyone has duties to the community in which alone the free and full develo
pment of his personality is possible.
(2) In the exercise of his rights and freedoms, everyone shall be subject only t
o such limitations as are determined by law solely for the purpose of securing d
ue recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and of meeting 
the just requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a dem
ocratic society.
(3) These rights and freedoms may in no case be exercised contrary to the purpos
es and principles of the United Nations.

Article 30.
 
Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group 
or person any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the
 destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein.
