Concerning Dangers from Foreign Force and Influence
For the Independent Journal.
Author: John Jay
To the People of the State of New York:
WHEN the people of America reflect that they are now called upon to decide a que
stion, which, in its consequences, must prove one of the most important that eve
r engaged their attention, the propriety of their taking a very comprehensive, a
s well as a very serious, view of it, will be evident.
Nothing is more certain than the indispensable necessity of government, and it i
s equally undeniable, that whenever and however it is instituted, the people mus
t cede to it some of their natural rights in order to vest it with requisite pow
ers. It is well worthy of consideration therefore, whether it would conduce more
 to the interest of the people of America that they should, to all general purpo
ses, be one nation, under one federal government, or that they should divide the
mselves into separate confederacies, and give to the head of each the same kind 
of powers which they are advised to place in one national government.
It has until lately been a received and uncontradicted opinion that the prosperi
ty of the people of America depended on their continuing firmly united, and the 
wishes, prayers, and efforts of our best and wisest citizens have been constantl
y directed to that object. But politicians now appear, who insist that this opin
ion is erroneous, and that instead of looking for safety and happiness in union,
 we ought to seek it in a division of the States into distinct confederacies or 
sovereignties. However extraordinary this new doctrine may appear, it neverthele
ss has its advocates; and certain characters who were much opposed to it formerl
y, are at present of the number. Whatever may be the arguments or inducements wh
ich have wrought this change in the sentiments and declarations of these gentlem
en, it certainly would not be wise in the people at large to adopt these new pol
itical tenets without being fully convinced that they are founded in truth and s
ound policy.
It has often given me pleasure to observe that independent America was not compo
sed of detached and distant territories, but that one connected, fertile, widesp
reading country was the portion of our western sons of liberty. Providence has i
n a particular manner blessed it with a variety of soils and productions, and wa
tered it with innumerable streams, for the delight and accommodation of its inha
bitants. A succession of navigable waters forms a kind of chain round its border
s, as if to bind it together; while the most noble rivers in the world, running 
at convenient distances, present them with highways for the easy communication o
f friendly aids, and the mutual transportation and exchange of their various com
modities.
With equal pleasure I have as often taken notice that Providence has been please
d to give this one connected country to one united people--a people descended fr
om the same ancestors, speaking the same language, professing the same religion,
 attached to the same principles of government, very similar in their manners an
d customs, and who, by their joint counsels, arms, and efforts, fighting side by
 side throughout a long and bloody war, have nobly established general liberty a
nd independence.
This country and this people seem to have been made for each other, and it appea
rs as if it was the design of Providence, that an inheritance so proper and conv
enient for a band of brethren, united to each other by the strongest ties, shoul
d never be split into a number of unsocial, jealous, and alien sovereignties.
Similar sentiments have hitherto prevailed among all orders and denominations of
 men among us. To all general purposes we have uniformly been one people each in
dividual citizen everywhere enjoying the same national rights, privileges, and p
rotection. As a nation we have made peace and war; as a nation we have vanquishe
d our common enemies; as a nation we have formed alliances, and made treaties, a
nd entered into various compacts and conventions with foreign states.
A strong sense of the value and blessings of union induced the people, at a very
 early period, to institute a federal government to preserve and perpetuate it. 
They formed it almost as soon as they had a political existence; nay, at a time 
when their habitations were in flames, when many of their citizens were bleeding
, and when the progress of hostility and desolation left little room for those c
alm and mature inquiries and reflections which must ever precede the formation o
f a wise and wellbalanced government for a free people. It is not to be wondered
 at, that a government instituted in times so inauspicious, should on experiment
 be found greatly deficient and inadequate to the purpose it was intended to ans
wer.
This intelligent people perceived and regretted these defects. Still continuing 
no less attached to union than enamored of liberty, they observed the danger whi
ch immediately threatened the former and more remotely the latter; and being pur
suaded that ample security for both could only be found in a national government
 more wisely framed, they as with one voice, convened the late convention at Phi
ladelphia, to take that important subject under consideration.
This convention composed of men who possessed the confidence of the people, and 
many of whom had become highly distinguished by their patriotism, virtue and wis
dom, in times which tried the minds and hearts of men, undertook the arduous tas
k. In the mild season of peace, with minds unoccupied by other subjects, they pa
ssed many months in cool, uninterrupted, and daily consultation; and finally, wi
thout having been awed by power, or influenced by any passions except love for t
heir country, they presented and recommended to the people the plan produced by 
their joint and very unanimous councils.
Admit, for so is the fact, that this plan is only RECOMMENDED, not imposed, yet 
let it be remembered that it is neither recommended to BLIND approbation, nor to
 BLIND reprobation; but to that sedate and candid consideration which the magnit
ude and importance of the subject demand, and which it certainly ought to receiv
e. But this (as was remarked in the foregoing number of this paper) is more to b
e wished than expected, that it may be so considered and examined. Experience on
 a former occasion teaches us not to be too sanguine in such hopes. It is not ye
t forgotten that well-grounded apprehensions of imminent danger induced the peop
le of America to form the memorable Congress of 1774. That body recommended cert
ain measures to their constituents, and the event proved their wisdom; yet it is
 fresh in our memories how soon the press began to teem with pamphlets and weekl
y papers against those very measures. Not only many of the officers of governmen
t, who obeyed the dictates of personal interest, but others, from a mistaken est
imate of consequences, or the undue influence of former attachments, or whose am
bition aimed at objects which did not correspond with the public good, were inde
fatigable in their efforts to pursuade the people to reject the advice of that p
atriotic Congress. Many, indeed, were deceived and deluded, but the great majori
ty of the people reasoned and decided judiciously; and happy they are in reflect
ing that they did so.
They considered that the Congress was composed of many wise and experienced men.
 That, being convened from different parts of the country, they brought with the
m and communicated to each other a variety of useful information. That, in the c
ourse of the time they passed together in inquiring into and discussing the true
 interests of their country, they must have acquired very accurate knowledge on 
that head. That they were individually interested in the public liberty and pros
perity, and therefore that it was not less their inclination than their duty to 
recommend only such measures as, after the most mature deliberation, they really
 thought prudent and advisable.
These and similar considerations then induced the people to rely greatly on the 
judgment and integrity of the Congress; and they took their advice, notwithstand
ing the various arts and endeavors used to deter them from it. But if the people
 at large had reason to confide in the men of that Congress, few of whom had bee
n fully tried or generally known, still greater reason have they now to respect 
the judgment and advice of the convention, for it is well known that some of the
 most distinguished members of that Congress, who have been since tried and just
ly approved for patriotism and abilities, and who have grown old in acquiring po
litical information, were also members of this convention, and carried into it t
heir accumulated knowledge and experience.
It is worthy of remark that not only the first, but every succeeding Congress, a
s well as the late convention, have invariably joined with the people in thinkin
g that the prosperity of America depended on its Union. To preserve and perpetua
te it was the great object of the people in forming that convention, and it is a
lso the great object of the plan which the convention has advised them to adopt.
 With what propriety, therefore, or for what good purposes, are attempts at this
 particular period made by some men to depreciate the importance of the Union? O
r why is it suggested that three or four confederacies would be better than one?
 I am persuaded in my own mind that the people have always thought right on this
 subject, and that their universal and uniform attachment to the cause of the Un
ion rests on great and weighty reasons, which I shall endeavor to develop and ex
plain in some ensuing papers. They who promote the idea of substituting a number
 of distinct confederacies in the room of the plan of the convention, seem clear
ly to foresee that the rejection of it would put the continuance of the Union in
 the utmost jeopardy. That certainly would be the case, and I sincerely wish tha
t it may be as clearly foreseen by every good citizen, that whenever the dissolu
tion of the Union arrives, America will have reason to exclaim, in the words of 
the poet: "FAREWELL! A LONG FAREWELL TO ALL MY GREATNESS."
PUBLIUS.
