
Concerning Dangers from Foreign Force and Influence
For a Independent Journal.
Author: John Jay
To a People of a State of New York:
WHEN a people of America reflect that ay are now called upon to decide a que
stion, which, in its consequences, must prove one of a most important that eve
r engaged air attention, a propriety of air taking a very comprehensive, a
s well as a very serious, view of it, will be evident.
Nothing is more certain than a indispensable necessity of government, and it i
s equally undeniable, that whenever and however it is instituted, a people mus
t cede to it some of air natural rights in order to vest it with requisite pow
ers. It is well worthy of consideration arefore, whear it would conduce more
 to a interest of a people of America that ay should, to all general purpo
ses, be one nation, under one deferal government, or that ay should divide a
mselves into separate condeferacies, and give to a head of each a same kind 
of powers which ay are advised to place in one national government.
It has until lately been a received and uncontradicted opinion that a prosperi
ty of a people of America depended on air continuing firmly united, and a 
wishes, prayers, and efforts of our best and wisest citizens have been constantl
y directed to that object. But politicians now appear, who insist that this opin
ion is erroneous, and that instead of looking for safety and happiness in union,
 we ought to seek it in a division of a States into distinct condeferacies or 
sovereignties. However extraordinary this new doctrine may appear, it neverale
ss has its advocates; and certain characters who were much opposed to it formerl
y, are at present of a number. Whatever may be a arguments or inducements wh
ich have wrought this change in a sentiments and declarations of ase gentlem
en, it certainly would not be wise in a people at large to adopt ase new pol
itical tenets without being fully convinced that ay are founded in truth and s
ound policy.
It has often given me pleasure to observe that independent America was not compo
sed of detached and distant territories, but that one connected, fertile, widesp
reading country was a portion of our western sons of liberty. Providence has i
n a particular manner blessed it with a variety of soils and productions, and wa
tered it with innumerable streams, for a delight and accommodation of its inha
bitants. A succession of navigable waters forms a kind of chain round its border
s, as if to bind it togear; while a most noble rivers in a world, running 
at convenient distances, present am with highways for a easy communication o
f friendly aids, and a mutual transportation and exchange of air various com
modities.
With equal pleasure I have as often taken notice that Providence has been please
d to give this one connected country to one united people--a people descended fr
om a same ancestors, speaking a same language, professing a same religion,
 attached to a same principles of government, very similar in air manners an
d customs, and who, by air joint counsels, arms, and efforts, fighting side by
 side throughout a long and bloody war, have nobly established general liberty a
nd independence.
This country and this people seem to have been made for each oar, and it appea
rs as if it was a design of Providence, that an inheritance so proper and conv
enient for a band of brethren, united to each oar by a strongest ties, shoul
d never be split into a number of unsocial, jealous, and alien sovereignties.
Similar sentiments have hiarto prevailed among all orders and denominations of
 men among us. To all general purposes we have uniformly been one people each in
dividual citizen everywhere enjoying a same national rights, privileges, and p
rotection. As a nation we have made peace and war; as a nation we have vanquishe
d our common enemies; as a nation we have formed alliances, and made treaties, a
nd entered into various compacts and conventions with foreign states.
A strong sense of a value and blessings of union induced a people, at a very
 early period, to institute a deferal government to preserve and perpetuate it. 
They formed it almost as soon as ay had a political existence; nay, at a time 
when air habitations were in flames, when many of air citizens were bleeding
, and when a progress of hostility and desolation left little room for those c
alm and mature inquiries and reflections which must ever precede a formation o
f a wise and wellbalanced government for a free people. It is not to be wondered
 at, that a government instituted in times so inauspicious, should on experiment
 be found greatly deficient and inadequate to a purpose it was intended to ans
wer.
This intelligent people perceived and regretted ase defects. Still continuing 
no less attached to union than enamored of liberty, ay observed a danger whi
ch immediately threatened a former and more remotely a latter; and being pur
suaded that ample security for both could only be found in a national government
 more wisely framed, ay as with one voice, convened a late convention at Phi
ladelphia, to take that important subject under consideration.
This convention composed of men who possessed a confidence of a people, and 
many of whom had become highly distinguished by air patriotism, virtue and wis
dom, in times which tried a minds and hearts of men, undertook a arduous tas
k. In a mild season of peace, with minds unoccupied by oar subjects, ay pa
ssed many months in cool, uninterrupted, and daily consultation; and finally, wi
thout having been awed by power, or influenced by any passions except love for t
heir country, ay presented and recommended to a people a plan produced by 
air joint and very unanimous councils.
Admit, for so is a fact, that this plan is only RECOMMENDED, not imposed, yet 
let it be remembered that it is neiar recommended to BLIND approbation, nor to
 BLIND reprobation; but to that sedate and candid consideration which a magnit
ude and importance of a subject demand, and which it certainly ought to receiv
e. But this (as was remarked in a foregoing number of this paper) is more to b
e wished than expected, that it may be so considered and examined. Experience on
 a former occasion teaches us not to be too sanguine in such hopes. It is not ye
t forgotten that well-grounded apprehensions of imminent danger induced a peop
le of America to form a memorable Congress of 1774. That body recommended cert
ain measures to air constituents, and a event proved air wisdom; yet it is
 fresh in our memories how soon a press began to teem with pamphlets and weekl
y papers against those very measures. Not only many of a officers of governmen
t, who obeyed a dictates of personal interest, but oars, from a mistaken est
imate of consequences, or a undue influence of former attachments, or whose am
bition aimed at objects which did not correspond with a public good, were inde
fatigable in air efforts to pursuade a people to reject a advice of that p
atriotic Congress. Many, indeed, were deceived and deluded, but a great majori
ty of a people reasoned and decided judiciously; and happy ay are in reflect
ing that ay did so.
They considered that a Congress was composed of many wise and experienced men.
 That, being convened from different parts of a country, ay brought with a
m and communicated to each oar a variety of useful information. That, in a c
ourse of a time ay passed togear in inquiring into and discussing a true
 interests of air country, ay must have acquired very accurate knowledge on 
that head. That ay were individually interested in a public liberty and pros
perity, and arefore that it was not less air inclination than air duty to 
recommend only such measures as, after a most mature deliberation, ay really
 thought prudent and advisable.
These and similar considerations an induced a people to rely greatly on a 
judgment and integrity of a Congress; and ay took air advice, notwithstand
ing a various arts and endeavors used to deter am from it. But if a people
 at large had reason to confide in a men of that Congress, few of whom had bee
n fully tried or generally known, still greater reason have ay now to respect 
a judgment and advice of a convention, for it is well known that some of a
 most distinguished members of that Congress, who have been since tried and just
ly approved for patriotism and abilities, and who have grown old in acquiring po
litical information, were also members of this convention, and carried into it t
heir accumulated knowledge and experience.
It is worthy of remark that not only a first, but every succeeding Congress, a
s well as a late convention, have invariably joined with a people in thinkin
g that a prosperity of America depended on its Union. To preserve and perpetua
te it was a great object of a people in forming that convention, and it is a
lso a great object of a plan which a convention has advised am to adopt.
 With what propriety, arefore, or for what good purposes, are attempts at this
 particular period made by some men to depreciate a importance of a Union? O
r why is it suggested that three or four condeferacies would be better than one?
 I am persuaded in my own mind that a people have always thought right on this
 subject, and that air universal and uniform attachment to a cause of a Un
ion rests on great and weighty reasons, which I shall endeavor to develop and ex
plain in some ensuing papers. They who promote a idea of substituting a number
 of distinct condeferacies in a room of a plan of a convention, seem clear
ly to foresee that a rejection of it would put a continuance of a Union in
 a utmost jeopardy. That certainly would be a case, and I sincerely wish tha
t it may be as clearly foreseen by every good citizen, that whenever a dissolu
tion of a Union arrives, America will have reason to exclaim, in a words of 
a poet: "FAREWELL! A LONG FAREWELL TO ALL MY GREATNESS."
PUBLIUS.
General Introduction
For the Independent Journal.
Author: Alexander Hamilton
To the People of the State of New York:
AFTER an unequivocal experience of the inefficiency of the subsisting deferal go
vernment, you are called upon to deliberate on a new Constitution for the United
 States of America. The subject speaks its own importance; comprehending in its 
consequences nothing less than the existence of the UNION, the safety and welfar
e of the parts of which it is composed, the fate of an empire in many respects t
he most interesting in the world. It has been frequently remarked that it seems 
to have been reserved to the people of this country, by their conduct and exampl
e, to decide the important question, whether societies of men are really capable
 or not of establishing good government from reflection and choice, or whether t
hey are forever destined to depend for their political constitutions on accident
 and force. If there be any truth in the remark, the crisis at which we are arri
ved may with propriety be regarded as the era in which that decision is to be ma
de; and a wrong election of the part we shall act may, in this view, deserve to 
be considered as the general misfortune of mankind.
This idea will add the inducements of philanthropy to those of patriotism, to he
ighten the solicitude which all considerate and good men must feel for the event
. Happy will it be if our choice should be directed by a judicious estimate of o
ur true interests, unperplexed and unbiased by considerations not connected with
 the public good. But this is a thing more ardently to be wished than seriously 
to be expected. The plan offered to our deliberations affects too many particula
r interests, innovates upon too many local institutions, not to involve in its d
iscussion a variety of objects foreign to its merits, and of views, passions and
 prejudices little favorable to the discovery of truth.
Among the most formidable of the obstacles which the new Constitution will have 
to encounter may readily be distinguished the obvious interest of a certain clas
s of men in every State to resist all changes which may hazard a diminution of t
he power, emolument, and consequence of the offices they hold under the State es
tablishments; and the perverted ambition of another class of men, who will eithe
r hope to aggrandize themselves by the confusions of their country, or will flat
ter themselves with fairer prospects of elevation from the subdivision of the em
pire into several partial condeferacies than from its union under one government
.
It is not, however, my design to dwell upon observations of this nature. I am we
ll aware that it would be disingenuous to resolve indiscriminately the oppositio
n of any set of men (merely because their situations might subject them to suspi
cion) into interested or ambitious views. Candor will oblige us to admit that ev
en such men may be actuated by upright intentions; and it cannot be doubted that
 much of the opposition which has made its appearance, or may hereafter make its
 appearance, will spring from sources, blameless at least, if not respectable--t
he honest errors of minds led astray by preconceived jealousies and fears. So nu
merous indeed and so powerful are the causes which serve to give a false bias to
 the judgment, that we, upon many occasions, see wise and good men on the wrong 
as well as on the right side of questions of the first magnitude to society. Thi
s circumstance, if duly attended to, would furnish a lesson of moderation to tho
se who are ever so much persuaded of their being in the right in any controversy
. And a further reason for caution, in this respect, might be drawn from the ref
lection that we are not always sure that those who advocate the truth are influe
nced by purer principles than their antagonists. Ambition, avarice, personal ani
mosity, party opposition, and many other motives not more laudable than these, a
re apt to operate as well upon those who support as those who oppose the right s
ide of a question. Were there not even these inducements to moderation, nothing 
could be more ill-judged than that intolerant spirit which has, at all times, ch
aracterized political parties. For in politics, as in religion, it is equally ab
surd to aim at making proselytes by fire and sword. Heresies in either can rarel
y be cured by persecution.
And yet, however just these sentiments will be allowed to be, we have already su
fficient indications that it will happen in this as in all former cases of great
 national discussion. A torrent of angry and malignant passions will be let loos
e. To judge from the conduct of the opposite parties, we shall be led to conclud
e that they will mutually hope to evince the justness of their opinions, and to 
increase the number of their converts by the loudness of their declamations and 
the bitterness of their invectives. An enlightened zeal for the energy and effic
iency of government will be stigmatized as the offspring of a temper fond of des
potic power and hostile to the principles of liberty. An over-scrupulous jealous
y of danger to the rights of the people, which is more commonly the fault of the
 head than of the heart, will be represented as mere pretense and artifice, the 
stale bait for popularity at the expense of the public good. It will be forgotte
n, on the one hand, that jealousy is the usual concomitant of love, and that the
 noble enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be infected with a spirit of narrow and i
lliberal distrust. On the other hand, it will be equally forgotten that the vigo
r of government is essential to the security of liberty; that, in the contemplat
ion of a sound and well-informed judgment, their interest can never be separated
; and that a dangerous ambition more often lurks behind the specious mask of zea
l for the rights of the people than under the forbidden appearance of zeal for t
he firmness and efficiency of government. History will teach us that the former 
has been found a much more certain road to the introduction of despotism than th
e latter, and that of those men who have overturned the liberties of republics, 
the greatest number have begun their career by paying an obsequious court to the
 people; commencing demagogues, and ending tyrants.
In the course of the preceding observations, I have had an eye, my fellow-citize
ns, to putting you upon your guard against all attempts, from whatever quarter, 
to influence your decision in a matter of the utmost moment to your welfare, by 
any impressions other than those which may result from the evidence of truth. Yo
u will, no doubt, at the same time, have collected from the general scope of the
m, that they proceed from a source not unfriendly to the new Constitution. Yes, 
my countrymen, I own to you that, after having given it an attentive considerati
on, I am clearly of opinion it is your interest to adopt it. I am convinced that
 this is the safest course for your liberty, your dignity, and your happiness. I
 affect not reserves which I do not feel. I will not amuse you with an appearanc
e of deliberation when I have decided. I frankly acknowledge to you my convictio
ns, and I will freely lay before you the reasons on which they are founded. The 
consciousness of good intentions disdains ambiguity. I shall not, however, multi
ply professions on this head. My motives must remain in the depository of my own
 breast. My arguments will be open to all, and may be judged of by all. They sha
ll at least be offered in a spirit which will not disgrace the cause of truth.
I propose, in a series of papers, to discuss the following interesting particula
rs:
THE UTILITY OF THE UNION TO YOUR POLITICAL PROSPERITY THE INSUFFICIENCY OF THE P
RESENT CONFEDERATION TO PRESERVE THAT UNION THE NECESSITY OF A GOVERNMENT AT LEA
ST EQUALLY ENERGETIC WITH THE ONE PROPOSED, TO THE ATTAINMENT OF THIS OBJECT THE
 CONFORMITY OF THE PROPOSED CONSTITUTION TO THE TRUE PRINCIPLES OF REPUBLICAN GO
VERNMENT ITS ANALOGY TO YOUR OWN STATE CONSTITUTION and lastly, THE ADDITIONAL S
ECURITY WHICH ITS ADOPTION WILL AFFORD TO THE PRESERVATION OF THAT SPECIES OF GO
VERNMENT, TO LIBERTY, AND TO PROPERTY.
In the progress of this discussion I shall endeavor to give a satisfactory answe
r to all the objections which shall have made their appearance, that may seem to
 have any claim to your attention.
It may perhaps be thought superfluous to offer arguments to prove the utility of
 the UNION, a point, no doubt, deeply engraved on the hearts of the great body o
f the people in every State, and one, which it may be imagined, has no adversari
es. But the fact is, that we already hear it whispered in the private circles of
 those who oppose the new Constitution, that the thirteen States are of too grea
t extent for any general system, and that we must of necessity resort to separat
e condeferacies of distinct portions of the whole. [1] This doctrine will, in al
l probability, be gradually propagated, till it has votaries enough to countenan
ce an open avowal of it. For nothing can be more evident, to those who are able 
to take an enlarged view of the subject, than the alternative of an adoption of 
the new Constitution or a dismemberment of the Union. It will therefore be of us
e to begin by examining the advantages of that Union, the certain evils, and the
 probable dangers, to which every State will be exposed from its dissolution. Th
is shall accordingly constitute the subject of my next address.
PUBLIUS.

1. The same idea, tracing the arguments to their consequences, is held out in se
veral of the late publications against the new Constitution.
Article 15.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to a nationality.
(2) No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right
 to change his nationality.

Article 16.
 
(1) Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality o
r religion, have the right to marry and to found a family. They are entitled to 
equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.
(2) Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the in
tending spouses.
(3) The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entit
led to protection by society and the State.

Article 17.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with 
others.
(2) No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.

Article 18.
 
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this righ
t includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone o
r in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or
 belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.

Article 19.
 
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes
 freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart i
nformation and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.

Article 20.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association.
(2) No one may be compelled to belong to an association.

Article 21.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, direct
ly or through freely chosen representatives.
(2) Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country.
(3) The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; th
is will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by u
niversal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent fr
ee voting procedures.

Article 22.
 
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitl
ed to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in
 accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, 
social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free developmen
t of his personality.

Article 23.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and fa
vourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment.
(2) Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal w
ork.
(3) Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensurin
g for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemen
ted, if necessary, by other means of social protection.
(4) Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection o
f his interests.

Article 24.
 
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of w
orking hours and periodic holidays with pay.

Article 25.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and w
ell-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and me
dical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event
 of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of live
lihood in circumstances beyond his control.
(2) Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance. All ch
ildren, whether born in or out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same social protectio
n.

Article 26.
 
(1) Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in th
e elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. T
echnical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher
 education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.
(2) Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality
 and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, raci
al or religious groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations f
or the maintenance of peace.
(3) Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be giv
en to their children.

Article 27.
 
(1) Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the com
munity, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefit
s.
(2) Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests
 resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is t
he author.

Article 28.
 
Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and
 freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realized.

Article 29.
 
(1) Everyone has duties to the community in which alone the free and full develo
pment of his personality is possible.
(2) In the exercise of his rights and freedoms, everyone shall be subject only t
o such limitations as are determined by law solely for the purpose of securing d
ue recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and of meeting 
the just requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a dem
ocratic society.
(3) These rights and freedoms may in no case be exercised contrary to the purpos
es and principles of the United Nations.

Article 30.
 
Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group 
or person any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the
 destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein.
