General Introduction
For the Independent Journal.
Author: Alexander Hamilton
To the People of the State of New York:
AFTER an unequivocal experience of the inefficiency of the subsisting federal go
vernment, you are called upon to deliberate on a new Constitution for the United
 States of America. The subject speaks its own importance; comprehending in its 
consequences nothing less than the existence of the UNION, the safety and welfar
e of the parts of which it is composed, the fate of an empire in many respects t
he most interesting in the world. It has been frequently remarked that it seems 
to have been reserved to the people of this country, by their conduct and exampl
e, to decide the important question, whether societies of men are really capable
 or not of establishing good government from reflection and choice, or whether t
hey are forever destined to depend for their political constitutions on accident
 and force. If there be any truth in the remark, the crisis at which we are arri
ved may with propriety be regarded as the era in which that decision is to be ma
de; and a wrong election of the part we shall act may, in this view, deserve to 
be considered as the general misfortune of mankind.
This idea will add the inducements of philanthropy to those of patriotism, to he
ighten the solicitude which all considerate and good men must feel for the event
. Happy will it be if our choice should be directed by a judicious estimate of o
ur true interests, unperplexed and unbiased by considerations not connected with
 the public good. But this is a thing more ardently to be wished than seriously 
to be expected. The plan offered to our deliberations affects too many particula
r interests, innovates upon too many local institutions, not to involve in its d
iscussion a variety of objects foreign to its merits, and of views, passions and
 prejudices little favorable to the discovery of truth.
Among the most formidable of the obstacles which the new Constitution will have 
to encounter may readily be distinguished the obvious interest of a certain clas
s of men in every State to resist all changes which may hazard a diminution of t
he power, emolument, and consequence of the offices they hold under the State es
tablishments; and the perverted ambition of another class of men, who will eithe
r hope to aggrandize themselves by the confusions of their country, or will flat
ter themselves with fairer prospects of elevation from the subdivision of the em
pire into several partial confederacies than from its union under one government
.
It is not, however, my design to dwell upon observations of this nature. I am we
ll aware that it would be disingenuous to resolve indiscriminately the oppositio
n of any set of men (merely because their situations might subject them to suspi
cion) into interested or ambitious views. Candor will oblige us to admit that ev
en such men may be actuated by upright intentions; and it cannot be doubted that
 much of the opposition which has made its appearance, or may hereafter make its
 appearance, will spring from sources, blameless at least, if not respectable--t
he honest errors of minds led astray by preconceived jealousies and fears. So nu
merous indeed and so powerful are the causes which serve to give a false bias to
 the judgment, that we, upon many occasions, see wise and good men on the wrong 
as well as on the right side of questions of the first magnitude to society. Thi
s circumstance, if duly attended to, would furnish a lesson of moderation to tho
se who are ever so much persuaded of their being in the right in any controversy
. And a further reason for caution, in this respect, might be drawn from the ref
lection that we are not always sure that those who advocate the truth are influe
nced by purer principles than their antagonists. Ambition, avarice, personal ani
mosity, party opposition, and many other motives not more laudable than these, a
re apt to operate as well upon those who support as those who oppose the right s
ide of a question. Were there not even these inducements to moderation, nothing 
could be more ill-judged than that intolerant spirit which has, at all times, ch
aracterized political parties. For in politics, as in religion, it is equally ab
surd to aim at making proselytes by fire and sword. Heresies in either can rarel
y be cured by persecution.
And yet, however just these sentiments will be allowed to be, we have already su
fficient indications that it will happen in this as in all former cases of great
 national discussion. A torrent of angry and malignant passions will be let loos
e. To judge from the conduct of the opposite parties, we shall be led to conclud
e that they will mutually hope to evince the justness of their opinions, and to 
increase the number of their converts by the loudness of their declamations and 
the bitterness of their invectives. An enlightened zeal for the energy and effic
iency of government will be stigmatized as the offspring of a temper fond of des
potic power and hostile to the principles of liberty. An over-scrupulous jealous
y of danger to the rights of the people, which is more commonly the fault of the
 head than of the heart, will be represented as mere pretense and artifice, the 
stale bait for popularity at the expense of the public good. It will be forgotte
n, on the one hand, that jealousy is the usual concomitant of love, and that the
 noble enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be infected with a spirit of narrow and i
lliberal distrust. On the other hand, it will be equally forgotten that the vigo
r of government is essential to the security of liberty; that, in the contemplat
ion of a sound and well-informed judgment, their interest can never be separated
; and that a dangerous ambition more often lurks behind the specious mask of zea
l for the rights of the people than under the forbidden appearance of zeal for t
he firmness and efficiency of government. History will teach us that the former 
has been found a much more certain road to the introduction of despotism than th
e latter, and that of those men who have overturned the liberties of republics, 
the greatest number have begun their career by paying an obsequious court to the
 people; commencing demagogues, and ending tyrants.
In the course of the preceding observations, I have had an eye, my fellow-citize
ns, to putting you upon your guard against all attempts, from whatever quarter, 
to influence your decision in a matter of the utmost moment to your welfare, by 
any impressions other than those which may result from the evidence of truth. Yo
u will, no doubt, at the same time, have collected from the general scope of the
m, that they proceed from a source not unfriendly to the new Constitution. Yes, 
my countrymen, I own to you that, after having given it an attentive considerati
on, I am clearly of opinion it is your interest to adopt it. I am convinced that
 this is the safest course for your liberty, your dignity, and your happiness. I
 affect not reserves which I do not feel. I will not amuse you with an appearanc
e of deliberation when I have decided. I frankly acknowledge to you my convictio
ns, and I will freely lay before you the reasons on which they are founded. The 
consciousness of good intentions disdains ambiguity. I shall not, however, multi
ply professions on this head. My motives must remain in the depository of my own
 breast. My arguments will be open to all, and may be judged of by all. They sha
ll at least be offered in a spirit which will not disgrace the cause of truth.
I propose, in a series of papers, to discuss the following interesting particula
rs:
THE UTILITY OF THE UNION TO YOUR POLITICAL PROSPERITY THE INSUFFICIENCY OF THE P
RESENT CONFEDERATION TO PRESERVE THAT UNION THE NECESSITY OF A GOVERNMENT AT LEA
ST EQUALLY ENERGETIC WITH THE ONE PROPOSED, TO THE ATTAINMENT OF THIS OBJECT THE
 CONFORMITY OF THE PROPOSED CONSTITUTION TO THE TRUE PRINCIPLES OF REPUBLICAN GO
VERNMENT ITS ANALOGY TO YOUR OWN STATE CONSTITUTION and lastly, THE ADDITIONAL S
ECURITY WHICH ITS ADOPTION WILL AFFORD TO THE PRESERVATION OF THAT SPECIES OF GO
VERNMENT, TO LIBERTY, AND TO PROPERTY.
In the progress of this discussion I shall endeavor to give a satisfactory answe
r to all the objections which shall have made their appearance, that may seem to
 have any claim to your attention.
It may perhaps be thought superfluous to offer arguments to prove the utility of
 the UNION, a point, no doubt, deeply engraved on the hearts of the great body o
f the people in every State, and one, which it may be imagined, has no adversari
es. But the fact is, that we already hear it whispered in the private circles of
 those who oppose the new Constitution, that the thirteen States are of too grea
t extent for any general system, and that we must of necessity resort to separat
e confederacies of distinct portions of the whole. [1] This doctrine will, in al
l probability, be gradually propagated, till it has votaries enough to countenan
ce an open avowal of it. For nothing can be more evident, to those who are able 
to take an enlarged view of the subject, than the alternative of an adoption of 
the new Constitution or a dismemberment of the Union. It will therefore be of us
e to begin by examining the advantages of that Union, the certain evils, and the
 probable dangers, to which every State will be exposed from its dissolution. Th
is shall accordingly constitute the subject of my next address.
PUBLIUS.

1. The same idea, tracing the arguments to their consequences, is held out in se
veral of the late publications against the new Constitution.
